Hey guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to discuss the first type of form controls,
which is the button control.
OK,
so buttons air used to trigger Mac Rose.
Okay.
And a macro is basically a program in Excel on a program is basically a set of steps that
you ask the computer to perform or ask Excel to perform.
Okay.
And ah,
macro Zehr written in a language called VB A and that stands for visual basic for
applications on.
We're not going to go into the details of vb A on this course because it needs a course old
by its own.
However,
I'd really encourage you to learn Vehbi,
eh?
As it would give you a very good skills.
Okay,
so I've got a button here on the left,
and it's already connected to a macro.
And all that macro does is that it writes used the button form control in cell F six as we
can see her of deleted the contents of cell F six and I'm just gonna press the button here
.
And you can see her that it rights to use the button form control in cell F six.
Okay,
So let's see how we can insert a button in excel.
so you need to go to the developer tab on the ribbon,
click on insert.
And then,
as you can hear,
this Ah,
shape here represents a button.
Okay,
so click on it.
And then you can left,
click and drag to dro the button wherever you want.
Okay?
And then excel when you drove the button.
Excel will start asking you,
Ah,
which macro you would like to assign to that button so that when that button is pressed or
clicked,
the macro would get triggered.
Okay,
so I'm gonna choose here the button macro.
Okay.
And I'm going to click.
OK?
And as you can see her,
my button has been drone.
You consider it's been the same that anymore,
but nine.
But I can get it's name by right clicking on it and clicking on it It text.
Okay.
And then I can start editing.
It's think OK,
so I can call it Molly Button or so Okay.
And it's now connected to the same macro as the button on the left.
I'm just gonna delete here the contents of cell F six,
and if I click on the button here.
You can see her.
The in cell F six,
it's written used the button form control.
You can also assign Micro's two shapes of Got here a shape,
actually.
Ah,
that is used as the button.
Okay to trigger macro.
So there is a market already assigned to it.
So if I click on it,
you can see here that there is a macro this written used the shape macro.
By the way,
both these macros have been written by myself.
So ah,
to insert a shape you can go to insert and then go to shapes,
and then you can choose any shape here.
But I'm gonna choose the rounded Richt rectangle here,
and you can just left,
click and drag to draw the shape.
Okay?
And ah,
you condone Just change its name.
I'm going to change it to my shape as well.
Okay.
And to assign a macro to a shape you can right click on it here and click on a sign macro,
and you can assign any macro to it.
I'm gonna assign the macro called shape macro,
which is the same macro for the shape on the left here,
So I'm just going to leave the contents of cell F 11 year.
And if I click on money shape here on the right,
you can see her that the macro has been triggered,
and,
ah,
the contents of cell F 11 hour used the shape macro.
Okay,
so let's check the code for the Mac Rose that are triggered by the shape and the button.
So to do that,
I'm gonna go to the developer tab on the ribbon here earlier and click on Micro's and then
on this button macro here,
I'm going to highlight it and then click on edit.
Okay,
so now I can see the button macron,
actually,
just below it.
There is the shape macro.
Ah,
they're just Ah,
very simple Micro.
Only do is that they write,
um,
used the shape,
use the button form control in cell F six,
and you also insulated 11.
The right its rights used the shape Macro this for the shape macro.
Okay,
so they're very simple.
Micro's just one line that writes a text in a cell.
Okay,
so now we're gonna close the V b A editor,
and I'm gonna also show you how you can record a micro so you can go to the developer tab
on the ribbon Click on record.
Macro.
Okay,
I'm gonna call it Hello.
Um,
macro here,
cause this Ah,
it's gonna just right.
Hello?
Okay.
So if if you just write the name of the macro and click,
OK,
Excel will start recording.
So I'm gonna go to sell F 15 year and right.
Hello?
Okay,
I am Press enter.
And now I want to stop recording so I can stop recording by clicking on stop recording here
under the developer top on the ribbon.
So if you click,
stop recording here.
Excel will stop recording.
And then you can insert a button by going to a developer.
Time on the ribbon,
clicking on insert here and then clicking on button.
And then you can draw another button here you can assign to it the new macro.
Hello,
Macro.
Okay.
And I'm just going to change the name of the button here to hello,
for example.
Okay,
So if changed its ah name and then I'm just going to lead the contents of cell F 15 and
click on the button.
You can see her That Ah,
the word hello has been written in cell F 50.
Okay,
so one more thing about using buttons and versus using shapes is that actually,
shapes have an advantage that they have mawr formatting that they that can be done to them
.
Okay,
so with shapes,
you can do a lot more formatting.
So if you select a shape here,
you can go to format and you can just give it ah,
lot of colors,
different colors year.
And you know,
you can give it even many more.
And you can also ah,
do some effects to it so you can give it a bevel here,
okay,
to give it some sort of a three dimensional effect.
And you can also make it glow and stuff like that.
Okay,
so this is ah,
very distinct advantage of shapes over.
Ah,
buttons.
They can both sugar macron's.
But this is ah,
an advantage for shapes over buttons.
Because buttons cannot change their colors.
Their ah aesthetics are basically limited.
Okay,
so thanks.
Guys were watching this video and l c on the next one